Welcome to another breakpoint session.
And this one, we're going to trace the runtime and see how our custom constraint annotation is validating
the score field.
So the first thing we're going to do is apply some breakpoints.
I will apply them all over our handler method.
I will apply breakpoints inside of as valid.
I'm going to apply breakpoints here as well inside of our constructor, our setters.
And now we're ready to run the application and debug mode.
All right.
Our Tomcat server.
I started on Port 88.
Let's go there.
And for now, I'll disable the breakpoints.
We don't need to trace the runtime right now.
Press continue.
All right, I reform has loaded.
I'll re-enable the breakpoints.
Now I will submit a valid name, a valid subject.
The only focus is to submit an invalid score.
So let's say our plus, we'll submit that.
And as always, submit form receives the request.
First thing it does is it creates a new grade object.
Um.
And as always, spring is smart enough to use your sweaters to populate every field in this object where
the values from the post request.
All right.
And after updating our grade object with values from the post request, the validation process starts.
And here you can see that spring boot is leveraging our is valid function in order to check if the score
value of this grade object is valid.
So this for loop is going to run and it will never return.
True, because our value is not equal to any of the scores inside of the scores list.
It's not a valid letter grade.
So this function is eventually going to return false when is valid returns false.
That means the score field is invalid.
So binding result carries the result of this validation.
There is one error.
The error applies to the field score.
The rejected value was R plus and the default message is that the score must be a letter grade.
So right as we return the form template file, Leif is able to access all of this data and here we're
accessing the error that's associated with the score of the grade object.
And it's going to display this error message.
Score must be a letter grade.
So if I press continue.
It does just that.